>> Mike North: The next topic we're going
to talk about is what domain driven design
describes as bounded contexts.
You could think about a bounded context
as kind of an area of a problem space or
a domain model where
a ubiquitous language,
a common shared language applies, and
there is internal consistency
within a bounded context.
So, for example, if you had a very
generic model name like item,
where maybe we consider there's
an item planted in a raised bed and
it happens to be a plant, or maybe item
means other things in other contexts.
The purpose of this bounded context is
really to create a bubble where you
don't have to add all these namespace
qualifiers where you're like,
this is a grid placeable item with ID and
metadata.
That's what we're going to call
our class for a particular entity.
Part of the value of this is it's almost
like identifying a related family
of entities and their relationships and
their constraints that you can
kind of draw a circle around and
say, this is a neatly bundled thing.
And like TypeScript Monorepo's course,
we might consider making this
a separate package because there's some
self contained complexity there and we can
use simple terminology while always noting
we're operating within that context.
Well, it turns out that there's
another context in this app beyond
sort of seeds and plants.
There's the context that has to do with
this user interface, which we're about to
start working on for being able to
drag plants into raised beds and
arrange them and
get some feedback based on our planting.
Our UI has a model that looks like this.
We have workspaces, zones,
item placements, and
those item placements relate to items.
So you could think of this as sort of.
It's a very generic ui.
Like you could use this same drag and
drop UI to build a chess game or
something like that.
In essence, it's a grid with
draggable tiles that are placed at
XY coordinates on a grid and
maybe they relate to a chess piece.
So we might have a model of like bishop or
knight or pawn, and
that would be part of the visual
representation of that thing on the grid.
And maybe there are multiple grids and
you can move things across chessboards.
For some reason,
the analogy's breaking down, but
the UI has no idea about
this gardening concept.
And so what we would say is,
well, that's a bounded context.
Item in this case is
just like in this world.
Well, we've since interfered with our
plant construction here, but in the world
of the gardening app here, it's just sort
of like these things that you can drag
onto the grid like it's the pepper plant
or it's the cherry tree or whatever it is.
And so
we're about to create a gardening related,
bounded context of our own
that will involve sort of,
at its root,
we may have this concept of garden, but
there are different beds in that
garden and plants within those beds.
And so
we're going to have to model all of that.
But we can say the terminology
we're going to use
when speaking garden belongs
in that bounded context.
And when we're speaking about grids and
workspaces and zones,
that belongs in the other context.
All right, but
how do we bridge those worlds?
Well, we need what's called
an anti corruption layer.
This is like DDD terminology,
but you have built these before.
It effectively is a way to keep
clean modeling in two areas.
Or sometimes you have clean modeling and
very dirty modeling in a legacy
code base or something.
The anti corruption layer is
a very closely scoped layer
that you use to kind of convert
between the important domain
models that are at the essence
of the app you're building and
whatever else they need to talk to.
Right.
This is what's going to avoid kind of
contaminating our garden and
our raised bed and
our plant and our seed packet with
the drag and drop UI concepts.
And we have this already right today.
It kind of exists in the route handlers
where we're adapting between what our
domain services spit out,
like a seed packet and
the HTTP response that needs to be
passed back up to our user interface.
So you might argue that's kind
of an anti corruption layer.
It would be even cleaner if we
were to say, you know what,
we're actually going to turn some of
that transformation, we're going to
refactor it into functions, and we might
create a new package that purely serves as
this layer to adapt between our domain
services and what the UI wants to get.
And then the request handling is
just sort of leveraging that and
we can further separate concerns that way.